Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
I'm Bill Bulger.
son of William Bulger.
the oldest of nine children.
[James Bulger] James Bulger.
I was born in 1962. April 26th.
That makes me. um. 54 right now.
I'm Mary Hurley.
daughter of
Bill and Mary Bulger.
I live across the street
from my parents.
Now married
and I have seven children.
My name is Kathleen Bulger Webb.
I have six sons. one daughter.
six brothers. two sisters.
I'm very lucky.
My name is Dan Bulger.
I'm a Boston native
and lived almost all my 50
years in South Boston
and still live there now
with my three teenaged children.
[suspenseful music playing]
[William Bulger] Somebody said
loyalty is the holiest good
in the human heart.
I think a degree of
loyalty is owed
to family members.
and it should not be
thrown aside
because someone has faltered.
[suspenseful music playing]
[woman] Whitey alone.
doing what he did.
would be the father
of books and movies.
Criminal rises to the top
by eliminating
his rivals in the Mafia.
But then you have the brother.
Billy is studying hard.
He rises to the top
of the political world
in Massachusetts.
To me. the story is fascinating
because
it's not black and white.
There's lots of different
complexities to it.
[Rep. Burton] Mr. Bulger. have
you talked to your brother James
since 1995?
And if so. where was he?
And where is he now?
On advice of counsel.
I am unable to answer
any questions today.
One of the Fifth Amendment's
basic functions
is to protect innocent men
who might be ensnared
by ambiguous circumstances.
I find myself
in such circumstances.
[Thomas Kiley] If they
cannot have one Bulger.
we fear they will have another.
And if it is not Whitey.
it will be Bill.
[Jimmy Bulger]
There's a false narrative
in Boston about my family.
and it's been. you know.
emblazoned in Hollywood films
for crime's sake.
[suspenseful music playing]
[newsreader] The FBI's new push
to find one
of their most wanted fugitives
James Whitey Bulger.
He's linked to 19 deaths
and has eluded authorities
since 1995.
[woman] Santa Monica
was the best time of my life.
And of his. too...
They weren't
looking for the real him.
They were looking for
this person they created.
That's why he was out there.
for all that.
It wasn't him.
[Jimmy] We have remained
very quiet about this.
We do not talk about this to
the media in any way or form.
because we cannot win.
I think it's time
to knock it down.
at least to throw a punch back.
I do think that
while my dad is still alive.
someone should just step up
and make sure
that there's some record
that folks can look at
that can see that my father
was a good man.
And his brother
was not the monster
they made him out to be.
[pipes and drums playing]
[people chattering]
- [William] Hello?
- [Bill Clinton] Hello?
Hello. Mr. President?
Yeah.
it's nice to hear your voice.
I know that this morning.
I'm just the other President
on the phone.
[audience laughing]
[applause and cheers]
Well. you're right about that.
but I don't think...
[people laughing]
I commend you for your humility.
- [Clinton] Then one of us needs to be humble.
- Pardon me?
One of us needs to be humble.
[people laughing]
My name is William Bulger.
I'm 83 years of age.
living here in South Boston
all of my life.
We lived at 41 Logan Way
in the Old Harbor
Housing Project.
And I think we moved there
when I was four years of age.
So most of my memory is there.
Spectacular friends
and neighbors
in that community.
And I cherish them forever.
As a youngster. I used to work
at John's Meat Market
on Divine Way.
And I loved working there.
And I knew everybody
in the Old Harbor Village
as a result.
And when the time came
for me to run for office.
they were fiercely loyal to me.
I'm married
to Mary Sarah Foley Bulger.
[Mary] When we became engaged.
he had $150 in his bank account.
[laughing]
That was his entire savings.
Imagine saying yes to someone...
[guffaws]
No job and $150.
What was I thinking?
[William] We have nine
children. I think 33 grandchildren
unless
something's happened today.
I had a wonderful life
in politics
serving in the Massachusetts
House of Representatives
as well as the Senate
for some 35 years.
I'm pleased to say
that every bit of it
is a nice memory for me.
[Michael Dukakis]
Bill Bulger and I arrived
in the Legislature
almost at the same time.
And he was a delight
to be with and listen to.
Because he's bright as hell.
funny as hell.
so when the representative
for South Boston rose to speak.
everybody would quiet down
because we knew
something would happen.
[Bill Weld] Well.
he's a very sophisticated man.
a very educated man.
He was not unsure
of where he stood ever.
If you read his autobiography.
While the Music Lasts.
he makes no bones about the fact
that he always had...
limitless
self-confidence in himself.
[gentle music playing]
[Jimmy] Okay. South Boston.
Well. I'm the
second oldest of nine.
Most of the families on the
street I grew up
on 3rd Street in South Boston
were big families. you know.
eight. seven. nine kids.
Not unusual.
It's a small town. it's only
about four square miles.
About 50.000 people lived in it
in those days.
And there were families
that have lived in it
for generations.
It was a working-class
neighborhood of good people.
proud of where they came from
and all close-knit.
being Irish Catholics
for the most part.
[William] It was very strong
as a neighborhood.
People were happy to say
they were from South Boston.
They even had their song.
you know.
♪ Southie is my hometown ♪
♪ There is something about it ♪
♪ Permit me to shout it ♪
♪ They're the tops for
miles around ♪
["Southie is my Hometown"
by Michael Charton playing]
[Matt Connolly] It was
like its own little country.
and it wasn't really
part of Boston.
It was South Boston and Southie.
[song continues playing]
The reason I think Southie
sets it apart from the rest
is that there's a strong
loyalty among the people
and a strong cohesiveness
where they stick together.
They're not bothered by what
other people think about them.
[people singing
"Southie is my Hometown"]
I wasn't conscious
when they named me.
but I definitely
got a good name.
It's my grandfather's name. too.
It's my father's father's
name. James Joseph Bulger.
So. uh. that's what I got.
His oldest son was named that.
and. of course.
he's the famous "Whitey"
that everyone calls him now.
Nobody called him that.
When I was growing up.
most people would not know
who my uncle was.
There's probably very
few people in South Boston
that could identify him.
He was a very low-key guy.
He drove around.
usually late in the
afternoons or late at night.
and he was not out
hanging around anywhere.
He had no bad habits.
He didn't smoke.
he didn't drink.
he didn't stand in bar rooms.
He took good care of himself.
and he was
not around all that much.
[nostalgic music playing]
[film projector whirring]
[Dan] Jim Bulger.
for the beginning of my life.
was just one more uncle
who came through the door.
He had big muscles
and yelled a lot.
but that was the extent of it.
[Bill] My uncle Jim's
personality
is rather overbearing.
[laughs] I think my brothers.
my siblings would all agree
that when he's in the room.
he's in charge and it seems
extremely evident to anyone
even if he doesn't say anything.
[Mary Hurley]
He could be a pain the neck.
I remember the time that I
missed my curfew or something.
so I think my mother told him
that I was late coming home
at night or something.
The next day. he shows up
with this big Timex watch
with the big numbers. like.
"Don't forget
to come home on time."
[Sarah Bulger Piscatelli]
He was very inconsistent.
We might see him
four days in a row
and then not see him
for six or seven months.
His days were different
than my father's.
Obviously. they just--
Looking at them side by side.
one was wearing
a black leather jacket.
the other one's wearing a suit.
[Bill] Early on. I just knew
he was doing
something different.
Didn't fully understand
what he was doing.
but certainly never felt
threatened by it or him
in any way.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Brian Wallace] We were
in Chinatown one night.
and we we were acting up.
we had a few beers.
and we were being Southie kids.
"Give us a beer.
give us a beer."
And the Chinese people.
"No. you're too young.
No. no beers."
And so I'm sitting there
and this guy
taps me on the shoulder.
And turn around. I say.
"What do you want?"
He said.
"Leave these guys alone."
You're fresh punks from Southie.
"These guys work hard
for their money."
I said. "Get lost."
I said. "We'll kick
the shit out of you."
I thought all my friends
would be laughing.
and I turned around.
and they're all like...
I said. "What's the problem?"
They said.
"That's Whitey Bulger."
I said.
"You gotta be kidding me."
I said. "No way
that's Whitey Bulger."
I said. "Oh. man."
So 20 minutes later. he's back.
"He said. " Want to go outside now
and we'll see
who does what to who?"
I said. "No. sir."
He said.
"Now you know who I am."
I said. "Yes. sir."
He said. "Listen.
I was just like you.
I was a fresh little punk
from Southie
and I ended up in Alcatraz."
He said. "So you never
open your mouth"
until you know
who you're talking to.
You understand that?
You're getting a pass this time.
because you're from Southie."
He said. "But that's only one pass."
[William]
♪ Life is a weary puzzle ♪
♪ Past finding out by man ♪
♪ I'll take the day
For what it's worth ♪
♪ I'll do the best I can ♪
♪ There were snowdrops
And primroses ♪
♪ Piled high beside her bed ♪
♪ And Ferran's Church
Was crowded ♪
♪ When her funeral mass
Was said ♪
♪ Each human heart
Must bear its grief ♪
♪ Though bitter be the bold ♪
♪ So God be with you Ireland ♪
♪ And the Old Bog Road ♪
That's it.
[applause]
[Mary] I remember the
first time we heard that song
we were in a bar in Ireland.
and I started crying.
And he says.
"I'm going to learn
that one." And sure enough.
And she still cries.
[all laughing]
[stammering]
But it's not the lyrics.
it's the singing.
[melancholic music playing]
[Peter Gelzinis] On both sides
of the street that I grew up in
were housing projects.
two very big housing projects.
The Old Harbor Project
was the first public housing
development in the country
and the other
one was the Old Colony.
Back then. when I was maybe
eight. nine. ten years old.
people swept
the project hallways.
There were lace curtains
on the front doors
of the apartment building.
There wasn't any sense
that these were
public housing tenants
and there was
any stigma to that.
It was just-- they were
a part of the community.
[Jean Bulger Holland]
Growing up here was wonderful.
Everything was brand-new.
The roads were perfectly paved
with no traffic on them.
For a kid like me. roller
skating around the whole project
was heaven.
And this was
our apartment right here.
756 was our apartment.
and we walked up
three flights of stairs
and my bedroom was up there
on the left top floor corner.
When I was growing up.
everybody was more or less
in the same economic
circumstances as we were.
In later years. I would hear
people talking about wealth
and what they had
and they were vying
for who had the most.
But I remember an argument
among my girlfriends
about who has the least.
I mean. you're talking
about nostalgia.
I'm kind of one
of the few men left standing
if you want to think about it.
Not too many left.
[nostalgic music playing]
[William] In the family.
there's my older sister Jean.
my older brother James.
and I'm number three.
and below me is Carol
and my brother Jack
and my sister Sheila.
My father lived in...
Well. for most of his life...
He was handicapped.
He had one arm
and he had to work.
Whenever a call would come
from the waterfront
they needed a night watchman.
And the coldest nights.
Christmas. any night
that nobody else wanted the job.
he would be sure that he would
get the call to go.
I think I was influenced
greatly by their example.
[Jean] And then. of course.
we had my brother Jim.
It was different.
He was always gone.
Nobody knew
what the heck he was doing.
My mother was always trying
to make him stay in the house
because
she didn't know where he was
and who his friends were.
When I was going back over
to Boston College High School.
he seemed to have been
faltering in school.
and every now and then.
he would get into
some kind of trouble.
Not large matters but...
My father lamented all the time.
When I was in the army.
I was stationed in Texas.
Fort Bliss. El Paso. Texas.
and my father drove there.
He had. as I say. one arm.
When we sat down and talked.
he was expressing
his concern about my brother.
But it was beyond
his ability to control.
[Jean]
We were all sitting around
in the small kitchen
that we had.
My mother and father
are getting our dinner.
and they're serving us.
And my brother Jim is there.
All of us were there. sitting
around. and he's kind of laughing.
He had done something wrong
and we were all eating
and very serious.
And I can remember him saying.
"I know
what you're all thinking.
You think Mom got the wrong
baby at the hospital.
don't you?"
And then he said.
"But you can't even say that
because I look just like his."
Always my brother Jim
was a worry
and my brother Bill was a
source of pride all the time.
Bill got into politics.
Actually. honestly. it was the
force of his own personality.
He had always been well liked.
He was very outgoing.
He had a good sense of humor.
even as a kid.
and he delivered groceries.
so all the ladies loved him.
[William] I read the biography
of James Michael Curley
and it's all about
his life here.
and also
the neighborhoods of the city.
I became familiar with that.
I was fascinated by all of it
because I had the interest
in politics to begin with.
And Curley had
a beautiful way of speaking.
He has a great aura to him.
[on recording]
I James Michael Curley...
[William] And I used
to do a take off of him.
[man on speakers]
If Curley is elected governor.
then he will take
the useless gold dome
from the top of the State House.
turn it upside down.
place it in the middle
of Flood Square.
fill it with water and let the
little children of South Boston
use it as a swimming pool.
[William] It was in 1960
and there were 16 candidates
for the House
of Representatives.
There was a vacant seat
and I ran all over the place
and knocked on doors
and did everything
that was necessary.
One of my opponents
used to call me
"Same Suit" Bulger.
because I always
wore the same suit.
Because it was the only suit.
And the night that I won.
I was happy that when he came
to my victory party.
we stood on the stage together.
I introduced myself
as "Same Suit."
At age 26.
I was elected to the House.
and I stayed there
for 35 years or so.
It was a happy life for me.
I think it might have been
tough on people around me.
[nostalgic music playing]
[Mary] Some nights
he would come home
and make the dinner
because he could tell I
just about had it. You know.
I think at the time.
I may have even told
my sweet wife "just one term"
but then another term.
"They need me."
That's how insufferable
politicians become.
Oh. I'll tell you
what happened then.
I just think he was so happy
doing what he was doing
and he was doing
such good things.
So I put up with it.
[giggles]
[Sarah] Reflecting
back now as an adult.
knowing how busy
he was at the time.
it's kind of impressive how much
he did dig in around the house.
I mean. certainly my mother
did the lion's share of it.
[Jimmy] He used to read to us
at night when we were kids.
So there'd be some of us
sitting on the sofa.
he'd sit on the floor.
Kids beside him. kids behind him
and everybody would be
following the same story.
A couple
on the couch up above him
and he'd have his back
to the sofa
and he'd be reading the book.
whether it was Robert Louis
Stevenson's Treasure Island
and we'd read
a couple of chapters a night.
And I remember as a boy just
being enthralled with the story.
[Jimmy]
I remember that very vividly
because he encourages us all
to read and be good students.
He was very keen on education.
[uplifting music playing]
Forced busing was put upon
the people of Boston
because there was an imbalance
in the school system
in that the neighborhoods
that were predominantly Black
were not getting the education
that the white neighborhoods
were getting.
That was the argument made.
And the solution was.
by the court.
to bus kids from
one neighborhood to another
so you wouldn't walk
to your local school anymore.
You'd be bused across the city
to another school.
[Shelley Murphy] When busing
started. I was 16 years old.
I was going into my senior year
at South Boston High School.
um. that was now being sent
to another school.
a school that was all Black
across town.
And South Boston. of course.
had been all white.
I wouldn't care
if they are green or purple.
the idea of putting
my kid on a bus
when I have a school
right across the street
from where they should go. I
don't care what color they are.
Let us go to our neighborhoods
where our kids are safe.
[overlapping yelling]
[Pastor Robert Gray] South
Boston was. it was like Alabama.
It was Mississippi.
just right down the street.
Regardless of the political
peace that was going on.
kids were stoned.
[demonstrators chanting]
[Jean McGuire] Up on the
hill there in South Boston.
you had people with sheets.
"Niggas. go home.
go back to Africa."
It was ugly.
[dramatic music playing]
It's not about the bus.
It's about us.
Everybody in the suburbs
gets on a bus to go to school.
You don't call it busing.
You call it education.
The bus was the code word
to say.
"Blacks
are leaving their place."
[man] It was a situation where
suddenly one local neighborhood
became a national flash point
for this question.
That explosion fueled
a lot of political careers.
[man]
I want Senator Bill Bulger!
[people cheering and applauding]
[William] I am here before you
to emphasize one central thought.
They were wrong.
They were wrong
about you.
about the intensity of the love
which you have for your
children and for your community.
They were wrong
about your determination
to remain in this city
as a cohesive community
and that you
somehow are the ones
to blame
for some social problem.
[cheers and applause]
It was so unfair that you
would be labeled racist
simply
because you opposed busing.
That's not to defend
in any way. shape or form
the people that were out there
throwing rocks at buses
and hurling racial slurs.
So I really felt
that Billy Bulger
was speaking for me
and for the people who
didn't really have a voice.
[Pat Nee]
The first time I met Whitey.
I was at an afterhours club
in South Boston.
There was card games going on.
and I wasn't a gambler.
but I'd be at the bar drinking.
Whitey he was in there.
I was introduced to him.
I had heard he was a
bank robber and all this stuff.
You know. it didn't make any
impression one way or another.
So I'm sitting there at the bar.
We're just engage in
meaningless conversation.
And one of our guys had
stopped at the Killeen's bar room
in Southie that night
and got his nose bit off
and shot three times in the arm.
And before he went
to the hospital.
he came into the club
to tell us what happened.
Two guys took him
to the hospital
and we all piled into one car.
We ran out of room
and Whitey said.
"I'm going that way."
Hmm. okay.
I know he was with the Killeens
and that's who had shot Mickey.
I said. "I don't think
we'll be talking again."
He says. "No. See you later."
Who knew
we were on opposite sides?
And then the shooting started.
We'd hunt each other.
He almost got me
one summer evening.
Tried to come in the window
with a grease gun. I think.
I grabbed the rifle out of
the closet.
A .30-06 with a scope.
and I jumped out the window
because I see him.
which way he was running.
and I kept dropping on one knee
trying to get him
in my scope but I couldn't.
I couldn't get
a clear shot of him.
His mother lived here
and he was pretty close
with his mother.
So I see this is a real good
place to try and get him.
He won't expect me
to be in the weeds here.
I staked this place out
periodically.
For about 18. 20 months
I showed up here.
I thought I had a real good
shot to get him here.
but I never did.
He never showed up.
We joined forces because
you can't make any money
when there's a war going on.
The cops are looking
to get everybody.
It was time to end it anyhow.
Enough damage
had been done on both sides.
We just walked in one Monday
with Whitey and told everyone.
"You're working for us now."
Everyone says. "Okay."
We threw the money on the table.
me and Whitey.
I said. "We've been in the
wrong business all these years.
Look at this. We were all
going. "Are you kidding me?"
That's what we get for the week?
Says. "Yeah. Week after week."
[suspenseful music playing]
[Kevin Weeks]
I'm working at Triple O's.
Jim Bulger. Steve Flemmi
used to come in all the time
on the weekends.
And little by little. they're
talking to me more and more.
especially Jim Bulger.
"How you doing? How's
your family? How is this?"
Just talking about stuff
around the town. everything.
I got involved
in a few other things.
And then
I started beating people up.
Besides my regular job.
I beat a couple of people up
for Jim Bulger.
And then basically.
one day he came and he says
to Kevin O'Neill. he says.
"I'm taking him with me."
[intriguing music playing]
You know. I can't say
anything bad about him.
He treated me really well.
almost like a son.
He taught me a lot about crime.
about life. about dealing with people.
And he was always trying to
keep me out of trouble.
He was always thinking.
thinking. using his head.
putting the odds
in our favor on everything.
And... I mean.
he was a smart guy.
He was ahead of a lot of people.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Catherine Greig] I was 24.
He wouldn't tell me
how old he was at the time.
but he was 44 or 45.
I knew of him. of course.
but I was walking
my dog in the park
and he asked somebody.
"Who is that?"
And then he started to call.
and I'm like. "No. I'm not interested
in going out with anybody now.
I'm just ending a relationship."
So he just kept calling.
And then I eventually
did go out to eat with him.
He was very persuasive.
He loved his family.
And he loved going to Bill's
house and seeing all the kids.
He was really part
of that family. you know?
There may have been a long
period of time sometimes
that he didn't come in there.
but he just loved it.
And was close to nieces
and nephews
after for a long. long time
[female newsreader] Elected
to the State Senate in 1970.
Bulger became Senate President
in 1978 at the age of 44.
[journalist] President.
congratulations.
A bit of a surprise.
Obviously. you weren't
taken aback by it all.
No. the Senate President
Kevin Harrington had informed me
last week
that he was thinking of it
and he made up his mind a
couple of days ago to do this.
[Murphy] If you go back
to the old movies. right?
The good brother.
the bad brother.
The Angels with Dirty Faces.
right?
It's sort of an age-old story.
You have Billy Bulger.
who was arguably
the most powerful politician
in the state.
the long time President
of the Massachusetts Senate.
And at the same time.
you have his brother.
this notorious gangster.
To me. the story is fascinating
because it's not
black and white.
There's lots of different
complexities to it.
Trying to get
at that relationship
and how they interact
and what their relationship is.
They're very protective
of each other.
Whitey was careful
not to embarrass him.
When their mother died.
Whitey made sure
that there was no opportunity
for a photo
of the two brothers together.
But there were intersections.
I mean. there were
things that happened
that really
triggered media scrutiny.
[Wallace] Boston magazine did a
story called "The Brothers Bulger"
and they came to me.
and they said.
"You know both Bulgers.
how do you separate them?"
"I said. "Well. if
you're sitting in a room
and you close your eyes.
"you wouldn't know
which was which." I said.
"They're both intelligent.
well-spoken. well-read.
can talk on any subject."
I said. "They're just.
they're brilliant people."
So about a week later.
I was going to Triple O's
on a Friday afternoon after work
and I feel this gun in my neck.
and I'm like. "Oh. my...
What's going on here?"
And I hear his laugh.
And he said. "I saw that quote."
He said. "You're learning."
He said.
"I like that you're learning."
[Weeks] He was proud of his
brother. He loved his brother.
I'd go up the house with them.
His brother lived on East
Third Street. and we'd go inside.
And they basically
talked about the kids.
talked about education.
I mean. it sounds crazy. but
that's what they talked about.
Talked about what was going on
in the town. talked about politics.
talked about everyday stuff
that you'd see in the paper
and on the news and everything.
He was very careful.
He sheltered his brother.
you know?
I mean. Billy's not stupid.
And he probably heard a lot
of stories about his brother.
what he was doing out there
and stuff.
but it was never
confirmed to him.
No one ever told him. you know.
exactly this happened
or that happened.
[Weld]
No one inside the State House
really ever thought
about Whitey Bulger
and Bill Bulger
in the same breath.
Except maybe me.
I had indicted Whitey Bulger
in a narcotics case
under seal to prevent him
from fleeing back in the '80s
when I was US Attorney.
So I knew a bit about him.
The word on the street was
Whitey kept the drugs
out of South Boston?
Complete lie.
Quite the contrary was true.
So I knew all about
the nefarious deeds
of Bill's brother.
but I just never made
any connection there.
And if I wasn't going
to make that connection.
believe me. nobody else was.
I wouldn't have known Whitey
Bulger if I'd fallen over him.
I had no idea who he was.
He had nothing to do with
government as far as I could see.
No impact on public policy.
I had no idea what he was doing.
I mean.
the dominant Bulger brother
was the Senate President.
not this other guy.
The state government
that he and I entered
in 1960 and 1962
as young state legislators.
it was one of the three or
four more corrupted in America.
Bill Bulger was the guy
that brought integrity
to the Massachusetts
State Senate.
Nobody understands this.
Sadly.
not really well recognized.
what he did to set
those kinds of high standards
and maintain them.
And we're benefiting
from that now.
And I think he has a right
to take a pretty good chunk
of the credit
for helping to make that.
[Bowns] He seemed to be
someone who believed in power
and wielding power
to get things done.
[applause]
[Bowns] I'd say he's
someone who's very principled.
very religious.
I think
he's a compassionate man.
soft spot in his heart for
the most vulnerable people.
poor people. children.
and very stubborn.
Won't compromise
on his convictions.
A recession is not
a moral justification
for casually punishing
the helpless. the homeless.
the sick. the disadvantaged.
We cannot
and we must not squander
a half century
of social progress
to pay the bills
of a difficult year.
We cannot turn our backs
on the education of the young
or the care of the elderly.
We cannot. and I am confident
that we shall not.
be found wanting
in performing the work
that we have been
so clearly sent here to do.
Thank you very much.
[applause]
[William] He wasn't very
open about things with us.
"It would be. " Don't worry.
It's not anything like that."
sort of reassuring.
"There's nothing
to be concerned about."
But all of the indicia
were there.
And...
You knew you had
something to worry about.
[Nee clears throat]
This is the Mullen Club.
This is where we socialized.
All the fighting was over.
so you wouldn't have to duck
and weave anymore and hide.
We would socialize here.
We would drink here.
We ran dice games here.
We ran card games here.
We did cookouts in back.
Everyone would come here
if they wanted to see us.
including the police
and the FBI.
He would come by night
and come in and all
the beer would go flat.
But he didn't drink.
He'd hang around a little bit.
He didn't like to shake hands.
He didn't like to touch people.
He would immediately
go in the bathroom.
Most people didn't catch on.
but he'd go in and wash his
hands and he'd come back out.
He didn't like contact.
He loved that people
would be fearful of him.
He really got off on it.
You know. little by little. we're
starting to pick up on this stuff.
This is not going
to be a good relationship.
But we didn't know how bad
it was going to turn out to be.
He was not a good guy
to be around.
[Weeks] Unless we were doing
something it was really boring.
Once a week. you'd go by.
you'd pick up the envelopes.
People would drop off money.
you pick it up.
You really didn't have
too much to do.
Then when you had a problem.
everything stopped
and you'd be out 24 hours a day.
The people we'd grab. most
of them were involved in drugs.
They were big drug dealers.
And they were the people
that brought in
by the boat loads
or different things.
We'd grab them and tell them
that they were going to pay us.
Oh. I remember one time
we got this fellow.
talked to him for 20 minutes.
And next day he showed up
with a hockey bag
with $500.000 in it.
One fellow we shook down.
we got $1.6 million off him.
So there's a lot of money
coming in.
[interviewer] Were you
bribing those guys? Just--
[laughing] Bribing them? No.
[interviewer] What were they
giving you this money for?
For their life.
[ominous music playing]
For Jim Bulger. Whitey.
violence was his last option.
He would use anything
in his arsenal up until that.
whether it was scaring people
or intimidating people.
beating people.
whatever... to get his way.
But when he decided
to use violence.
especially against someone
that was capable...
He decided on killing them.
he was going to kill them.
And there was
no changing his mind.
It was just business with him.
He'd put everything into it.
After he killed someone.
he'd be nice and relaxed.
It's kind of like taking
a Valium or something.
He just...
It was over and that was it.
It was done.
And then he'd be
on to something else.
[brooding music playing]
[Wallace] If he liked you
and he wanted you
for whatever. he would...
He would bring you in.
And then he'd make you
do something
so that you couldn't get out
because he had that on you.
Like Kevin buried the bodies.
Kevin couldn't get out.
I mean. if Whitey'd get caught.
he's gonna say. "Kevin
buried those bodies there."
So it was just this whole game
that they were playing.
It wasn't a game. though.
They were killing people.
They killed some of my friends.
[ominous music playing]
[William] You don't want a
battle of wits. You're unarmed.
I mean. we don't... [laughing]
I'm only kidding.
My brother
will be asking for you.
[laughter and applause]
He's got a great sense of
humor. He's a funny bastard.
He has a great ability
to assess a situation
and come up funny on it.
This guy is dangerous. He
could end up in the White House.
He's like Mr. Magoo.
Right off the edge of the cliff.
- And. oh. an eagle comes along.
- [laughter]
Brother.
he always lands on his feet.
"Oh. I just made a minor mistake
for $1.5 million
in my tax return."
[laughter]
Can you imagine if I
had made a little mistake?
[applause]
[Weld] He'd make fun of me
for worshipping
in wooden churches
and my people having come over
on the Mayflower
and silver spoon.
and I was Irish
on my chauffeur's side
and all that sort of thing.
Got a lot of good lines.
good laugh.
No one loves a joke like
the Irish. It's really terrific.
I didn't know Protestants get
up this early on Sunday morning.
Really good to see you.
We're not going to pick on you
today or something like that.
Somebody said. "Don't be
too hard." It was your wife.
[laughter]
[Dukakis] I loved going to the
breakfasts. They were hilarious.
If it's a broken convention.
we're going to use
your old charisma...
[Dukakis] They were a feature
of political life of Boston.
I mean. if you were anybody. you
better get down to that breakfast.
And if you went down there.
you should expect
to be raked over.
I know this is going to
disappoint some of you.
but I'm not going to be a
candidate for the presidency...
of the Massachusetts
State Senate.
[laughter and applause]
You're keeping us in suspense.
Governor.
He's still waiting to hear.
Chitty. tell him.
[laughter]
The one weakness he had.
and I say this respectfully.
was that he just wouldn't
spend a lot of time
thinking about
his media relationships.
Marty Nolan from the Globe
said. "Well. Mr. President.
looks like a nice day.
doesn't it?"
- I said. "I never mind your trick questions."
- [laughter]
The Boston Globe and Bill Bulger
really didn't get along
all that well.
and he didn't mind saying so.
Didn't mind sharing his opinion
of "the sullens
of the Fourth Estate."
as he sometimes called them.
[William] Do we need
any greater assurance
of the excellence
of this candidate
than to know
that the Boston Globe
has endorsed his opponent?
Is there any greater assurance
needed?
[applause]
[Connolly] He had a different
philosophy from the Boston Globe
because he would never respond
to their requests.
He was always. you know.
"You didn't elect me.
I'll be responsible to my
constituents. not to you."
It became a personal grudge
between Bill Bulger
and Gerald O'Neill
and Dick Lehr from the Globe.
If you read their book.
they say.
"In the pantheon
of American criminals.
Whitey stands out
above all of them.
above Gotti. above Al Capone.
They have him at the top.
Whitey wasn't even
at the top in Boston.
So you just look at that.
It makes no sense
unless they're really
trying to do something
other than what they're doing.
which is to take down Bill.
because
of their hatred for Bill.
[ominous music playing]
[Bill] The big target
was my dad very often.
You know. that's what I think
was going on.
They would love to get
Senate President Bulger.
You know. they tried
numerous times
to concoct stories and have
people come in.
And if they could tie
my Uncle Jim to him
in order to tear him down
in his career.
they would make
a name for themselves.
[Dan]
I've even read the headline.
"William Bulger
Is the Head of the Mob."
There could be nothing
any further from the truth.
[Shelley] I think the job
of the media is to lay it out.
let people know.
And I think
that if you're a politician.
you're going to come under
a lot of scrutiny anyway.
If you're a politician with a
brother who's killing people.
part of the story
is the brother.
I mean. that's part of it.
[Alan Dershowitz] The investigation
was directed at an accusation
that Senator Bulger had
committed a serious felony.
namely. had accepted
a $250.000 bribe
indirectly through another
attorney.
I don't care whether you...
Listen. Mr. Chairman.
There's never anybody has made
such an accusation against me.
except for Silverglate
and Dershowitz.
He's been accused of all kinds
of crazy things in the media
but never charged with anything.
They are reckless
and they are liars
and they have no moral
constraints upon them.
Look at them.
They are beneath contempt
in my view
I hope I'm making myself clear.
[Jimmy] They throw around the
word "corrupt." He's not corrupt.
He's the most honest guy
that has ever walked.
The real sad part of the whole
story of the Bulgers
is what they've done
to his reputation.
because that narrative
is just absolutely false.
[dramatic music playing]
[Gelzinis]
There's two poles in the town.
Then. Okay. there was
the criminal pole
and there was
the political pole.
Two forces of gravity.
And they were both controlled
by the Bulger brothers.
Those two brothers actually were
the sort of center
of the universe
in the town for a long time.
[dramatic music continues]
[animated music playing]
[newsreader] Indicted this
week for 12 counts of racketeering
and extortion.
James "Whitey" Bulger
is a shadowy figure
caught on surveillance photos
and police wiretaps.
[female newsreader] The FBI
revealed that Bulger
had been
an underworld informant.
helping them collect evidence
against the New England Mob.
His handler was disgraced
FBI agent John Connolly.
[Connolly] John Connolly
became an FBI agent in 1968.
The FBI wanted to partner
with top criminals
who had access
to other top criminals.
They wanted to have a
long-term relationship with them.
and they didn't want
anyone to know about it.
Remember. these are our most
important assets that we have.
informants. I mean. they're
the name of the game.
You're going to get friendly with
them and you're going to like them.
But you never forget
who you work for.
[brooding music playing]
[Weeks] I didn't really know
about the friendly relationship
between John Connolly
and Jim Bulger
till. I'd say. early '80s.
And I found out we're paying
John Connolly for information.
The FBI is trying to do this.
The State Police
are trying to do that.
The DEA is trying to do this.
The Boston Police
are trying to do that.
He let us know of all these
investigations going on. on us.
And that's how
we avoided them all.
because
we were getting tipped off.
[Wallace] John Connolly idolized
Whitey when he was growing up as a kid.
They grew up in the project.
both of them.
Whitey saved him one
time he was getting beat up.
I think he got taken care of
his whole life by Whitey.
I mean. John would wear
these $5.000 suits
and these cuff links that cost
more than my house.
And he had the hair all done.
He looked like someone
out of Goodfellas.
Whitey pulled him in.
He pulled him in.
and then he got him in so far
that he was in.
he couldn't get out.
December 23. 1994.
John Connolly came down
to the liquor store.
And he was looking for
Whitey and Stevie.
He couldn't find them.
so he come up to me
and he told me
that the indictments
were coming down.
So I called Jim Bulger.
I beeped him.
He came down. saw me.
We took a ride.
Within 30 minutes. he was
gone. Packed up and gone.
[intriguing music]
For the first
35 years of my life.
I was Bill Bulger's son.
Once all that burst onto
the scene with the arrests
and him going on the run.
suddenly it flips.
You become Jim Bulger's nephew.
You know. "Are you
related to that Bulger?"
No one ever asked me
that years ago.
They would ask me if I was
related to Bill. you know.
and it's kind of
turned on his head
because while my father was
a very visible person. right?
He had a very visible job.
and his brother. by nature.
was invisible.
Whatever he was doing.
and we weren't
even totally aware
of what that fellow was doing.
No one is.
If you're in that life.
you keep it quiet.
Bear in mind.
until the time they heaped
all these charges on them.
there was. we never
had any idea. he. uh.
that these things
he was accused of.
that was not known.
None of us
would have known that.
Do you understand what I mean?
You know. being a bookmaker
is different.
You know?
There was a booking in every bar
and someone had to be the bank.
But I don't. you know. as far
as all the other charges.
No one...
[ominous music]
[woman] Whitey Bulger's
relationship with the FBI
was exposed shortly
after he went on the run.
[Kevin] We all believe we
were paying for this information.
Then it all came out
that not only were we paying
for information.
but they were given information.
And it destroyed all of us.
I mean. a lot of us were
devastated by it
because we believed that
we were paying for information.
And we couldn't believe it.
he was an informant.
[intriguing music]
The informant file that was
alleged to have been
his contained information.
He provided this poor fiction.
[intriguing music continues]
The first page is a report that
says something along the lines.
"Informant said that somebody
may have been involved
in a crime."
The very last page of this file
is the same exact report
with a different date on it
down to the syllables
and everything.
An expert has looked at them
and said.
"This guy wasn't a informant.
This is nonsense."
And I put some previse in that.
The thing that convinces me
the most
that he was not in informant
is the intensity with which
the Department of Justice
insisted that he was
an informant.
They didn't insist
so much and so hard
that he had murdered somebody
or robbed this bank or
done this crime or that crime.
It was that thing they want
to be true so much.
So why would the government
want this so badly to be true?
I don't know quite the answer
to that question.
but I believe the case
is that were not true.
The relationship
between Jim Bulger
and the Department of Justice
was solely
that Jim Bulger
was bribing them all.
[woman] Where is Whitey?
It's a game the FBI
is sick of playing.
The latest possible sighting
of South Boston's
most notorious gangster
and his mob
of all places. Sicily.
birthplace of the Mafia.
The prize for the winner
of where's Whitey
is a cool million dollars.
That's the bounty
on his snowy white head.
[Shelley] Well. he's on the run.
This is when the whole case
blows up.
[reporter] New York's
Time Square.
A billboard showing
the FBI's new push
to find one of their most wanted
fugitives. James Whitey Bulger.
[Shelley] They put him
on the FBI's ten most wanted.
The pressure is really
on the FBI to find him.
[Kevin] Part of it was because
it was such an embarrassment
to the FBI.
They wanted him so bad
that they boost them up.
you know. and they could
never catch him.
So it just became
like Elvis sightings.
all around the world
at one point.
You know.
"He's there. he's there."
[intense music]
The big part of my
uncle's persona is a myth.
When you're in a business
that he was in.
you want people to think
you're tougher than you are
and it protects you.
So there is a myth
that you bring on yourself.
I believe that the media
helps to create that myth
later in his life.
As he fled. there was
no defense. right?
The myth takes off on its own.
[Kevin] Johny Depp
might have looked like him.
but he didn't act like him.
Get in the fucking car.
[Kevin] It is a mystical movie.
It should be made
by Walt Disney.
I saw the movie and I couldn't
believe that that was
what was supposed to be
portrayed as our life
what we did. what we lived.
It was made up. It was fantasy.
And no one knew where he was.
[Catherine] And we were
all through the country
for a year. a year and a half.
We just drove and drove
and we would see signs
on the road and we think.
"Oh. we never heard of that.
Let's go travel down there
and see what that's like."
And Santa Monica. he had been in
and it was nice because the
ocean was there. the beaches
and it was just the climate
that. oh. that was fabulous.
We were
on the California freeway
and it was beating hot day.
brutally hot.
And he saw an elderly couple
with a Volkswagen camper
that had broken down
and he put the vehicle
in reverse and got out.
And he spent probably the
next hour changing the tire.
talking to the man and woman
doing this and that.
That's the kind of person he
was. a very kind. giving person.
And he was kind to me.
my family. but strangers.
I think even the workers
that lived in the building
that we were at.
he was always
trying to help them.
There were a couple
of single mothers in there
and he always tried to help them
play with the kids out
in the lobby.
leave things
in front of the door.
deliver the mail.
Just to be helpful to people.
I remember the day we were on
Venice Beach in the summer time.
sitting on a bench. and then
about eight policemen came up
and they just stopped
in front of us.
And my first thing is. uh-oh. and
he's just calm and looking at them
and one stepped forward
and he said.
"You know.
I'm going to retire soon.
And I hope my wife and I are
as happy as you people are."
[sighs]
I guess we did feel freer there.
I can remember
somebody saying to me
when we first were arrested.
"Aren't you relieved
"you don't have to look over
your shoulder?" [laughs]
Are you crazy?
I never looked on my shoulder.
We stayed in the same
building. the same apartment.
We didn't worry.
We've had a wonderful life
in Santa Monica. really.
[intense music]
[Rep. Burton] Edmund Burke
said that the only thing necessary
for the triumph of evil
is for good men to do nothing.
He wasn't talking
about why we're here.
but he might just
as well have been.
Rogue members of the FBI
up to the highest levels
protected informants at the
expense of innocent people.
Informants committed murders
with impunity.
Killers were tipped off
so that they could flee
before being arrested.
And when people went
to the Justice Department
and the FBI with evidence
about murderers.
some of them wound up dead.
Did you talk to your brother
about rumors that he was
a government informant?
No. I don't believe so.
Did you know that he was
involved in murder?
No. I do not. I just...
Did you know he was involved
in narcotics trafficking?
No.
Did you ever use
any of your authority to. uh.
to chastise
or threaten people that.
that were after your brother?
No. Never.
In retrospect. giving
your power and prestige.
did you ever discourage
law enforcement
from doing everything
it could go after your brother?
Never.
With the Chairman's indulgence.
I would like to offer
a few words about my brother.
Many words
have been written about him.
A few have been spoken by me.
So please allow me
to speak plainly.
I do not know
where my brother is.
I do not know where he has
been over the past eight years.
I have not aided James Bulger
in any way.
While he has been a fugitive.
Do I possess information
that could lead
to my brother's arrest?
The honest answer is no.
I know my brother stands
accused of many things.
Serious crimes. brutal crimes.
I do still live in the hope
that the worst of the charges
against him
will prove groundless.
It is my hope.
But I am ever mindful
of the Good Shepherd story
and its lesson that
no one is to be abandoned.
I care deeply for my brother.
But no one should construe
my expression of concern
in any way
condoning any illegal acts.
Nor should anyone think
that I ever take lightly
this entire matter.
Among the constituents
of my legislative district
and in the Massachusetts
Senate. there was always
an awareness of my brother.
It was never a secret.
But people understood
that we were different people
who lived different lives and
should be judged separately.
[female newsreader]
After months of controversy
surrounding his post.
the President of the
University of Massachusetts
is stepping down
and it all has to do
with his brother
who happens to be one
of the FBI's ten most wanted.
[male journalist] For months.
Massachusetts Governor.
Mitt Romney
and the State attorney general
have called for his resignation.
The University board
held out until now.
[W Bulger] I deeply appreciate
the strong vote of confidence
that you gave me
just six weeks ago.
as well as your willingness
to judge me on my own merits.
I think that Bill Bulger taking
the Fifth before Congress
is what gave then Governor
Romney the leverage he needed
to get Bill Bulger out
as President of UMass.
[soft music]
I'll never forgive Romney
for what he did to Bill
when Bill was proving to be
one of the most
effective presidents
at the University of
Massachusetts we'd ever had.
It was all about the brother.
[gentle piano tune]
[Christine] We saw that his
family was being subjected
to things because of him.
And he would have felt
so bad about that.
[sobbing]
But he does what he wanted
to do later in life is.
I have to answer these things
because my poor family...
[sobbing] That really
troubled him.
[piano music continues]
[Mary] My husband worked hard.
and you would think
he would be treated fairly.
but it didn't work that way.
You learn to handle it
when you live with Bill.
Bill tells you you can't
let it get to you.
We just keep on going
the way you are
and don't worry about that.
That will work out.
[female newsreader]
And breaking news.
A crime boss from
the FBI's ten most wanted list
finally captured tonight
here in Southern California.
[male reeporter]
What a night this is.
The so called globe trotting
godfather of South Boston
arrested tonight on the
streets of Santa Monica.
He and his girlfriend
arrested here.
Whitey is in custody.
[suspenseful music]
[Shelley] They finally
find him 16 years later.
living in
a rent control department
in Santa Monica. California.
with $822.000
stuffed in the wall.
Oh. and by the way. he's caught
because his girlfriend
is feeding a cat.
And former Miss Iceland notices
how kind they are at the cat
and then recognizes them when
she's sitting back in Reykjavik
from an episode
of like 2020 or something.
I mean. she calls in the FBI.
and they capture him.
[Christine] In his mind.
he always knew
there was a potential
for that day to come.
He was emotionally very bad.
Yeah. he was.
He was.
He was a realist.
When they brought him
back to town.
I likened it to Caesar
when he captured Vercingetorix
and brought him back to Rome
for the triumph.
And the man is
in shackles in a cage
and he's coming
into the city of Rome
and going through the archway.
That's what they were doing
here in Boston.
We were the bad Bulgers.
It's continually.
you hear that drumbeat.
[reporter] Mr. Bulger.
what do you think
that your brother is
in prison right now?
Can you tell us about this book
that his niece and nephew
are writing?
[Mary Bulger Hurley] I remember
when Osama bin Laden got caught.
Osama bin Laden
had some relatives
living in Cambridge.
Massachusetts
and everybody came
out defending those relatives
in Cambridge. Massachusetts.
They could make the distinction
between these
Osama bin Laden relatives
and Osama bin Laden
who was top on the most wanted
list or something.
And I was thinking. "How can
they make the distinction"
of them. but not for us?
Why can't people see that?
We are not all. you know...
Whitey Bulger.
[sirens wailing]
[reporter] Are you happy to
see your brother or anything?
No. I gave a statement.
"My father said. "I'm going
down to the courthouse.
"I want him to see me."
So he went on
with one of my brothers
and my other uncle Jack.
and they went down to the
court house to sit in the front row.
so that Jimmy saw them
so that he knew
that they care about him.
The 2013 trial of Whitey
Bulger was totally unnecessary
because Whitey was willing
to plead guilty to all charges
on the condition that
Catherine Greig get a break.
Let her off we don't need
a trial. I'll plead guilty.
And I'll do the rest
of my life in prison.
He was in his 80s at the time.
but they didn't want
to let him do it
because they wanted
to put on this big show.
The Globe and the media
had created this huge myth
out of James Bulger.
And then
the US Attorney's office
comes in strong afterwards.
[Shelley] The prosecution
presented 63 witnesses in 30 days.
Victims. drug dealers and hitmen
who are serving time
for murder and plea deals.
[Kevin] I hadn't talked to Jim
Bulger until I saw him in court
at his trial
and I was sitting as close
as I am to you away from him
maybe nine. ten feet.
And he wouldn't look at me
at all.
And I kept on staring at him.
and he wouldn't look at me.
You know. I just wanted
to know why you did this.
You know. explain it to me.
and he wouldn't
look at me at all.
I never gave up
anybody in my life
and I'm disappointed
because he was my mentor
and everything.
And I believed
everything he said.
There's nothing
I wouldn't have done for him.
And now I find out
you're an informant.
[Jimmy] When you swear in
court to give your testimony.
it's swearing to tell the truth.
If you've arrested
half a dozen guys
and threaten them
with life in prison.
but if they talk
about this other guy
they can only do six years.
Well. they're talking
about that other guy
because it's worth more
than gold or currency.
It's freedom.
Some of these fellas
that testified against them
were admitting
to ten murders or more.
Are you crazy or just nuts?
I know you're mourning.
And I'm sorry for you loss
but we have something
much bigger here. We have--
What's the "bigger here"?
What's here?
Tell me what's here. What's...
[woman] So you take the crimes
of these five individuals.
plus a few more. you know.
and you put it
in the scales of justice...
How do their combined crimes
which include
at least 100 murders
weigh less than the crimes
of James Bulger?
The scales of justice
were altered.
and the question is why.
[man] After 16 years as a fugitive.
Boston mob boss Whitey Bulger
learned his fate Thursday
for a reign of terror
in the 1970s and '80s.
The 84-year-old has been
sentenced to life in prison
for 11 killings
and a string of other charges.
including extortion
and money laundering.
[woman] Today is the day
that many in this city
thought would never come.
James J. "Whitey" Bulger
now stands convicted
for his role as the ring leader
of the murderous
Winter Hill Gang.
This day of reckoning for Bulger
has been a long time in coming.
Jim Bulger is my uncle.
and he's still family to me.
But I am aware that now.
in retrospect. he hurt people
The families that were left.
some kids that I played with
when I was younger.
who didn't have a father
and I didn't realize
until 30 or 40 years later
why they didn't have a father.
[man] There's no way to equate
what our family has gone through
with what the victims of the
crime families have gone through.
They've suffered terribly.
The Bulgers are not
in that bucket.
[Catherine]
It's very difficult for me.
almost impossible for me to say
he was like this.
and this is the way I was
with him in Santa Monica
and how he lived
and he did that.
I mean.
it's hard for me to see that
but I'm not diminishing
their suffering at all.
I mean. I know they lost people.
Uh...
I don't know. I'm sorry.
[brooding piano tune]
[Jean Bulger Holland]
I feel sorry for him at times.
Then I could be angry.
He's been his own worst enemy.
And I know
he never expected the fallout.
But you don't even know--
Does he have the capacity.
for him to look beyond
what his own little life is.
you know.
and see how it's
affected anybody else?
I'm not sure that he...
He goes there.
[William] I wrote to him
all the years he was in prison.
You know. I cared...
I care about him.
I'm not sure
if he was listening
attentively to me.
[woman] I really loved my mother
but could never express it
with words.
Fortunately.
my brother Bill could
and always said the right
things to her and my father
in their last moments.
"I can see the room."
"My mother in it in so much pain"
"but I couldn't do
anything for her."
After the trial.
I wanted to find out
what we were told. and I went
to the Plymouth Prison
and got Bulger's information.
He was an inmate there.
And find out
how to write to him.
And I did send him a letter
and explained
that I was on the jury
and I just had questions.
When he talked
about the criminality
there was a harshness to him.
But then he would start
talking about his family.
and there would be
just this softness
a kindness. a compassion.
Even in the very first letters.
Jim talked about Catherine
and how he had wanted
to take the death sentence
and have her get out of prison.
[newsreader] "Whitey" Bulger's
girlfriend. Catherine Greig.
just learned that she'll spend
an additional 21 months
behind bars.
almost two years.
Greig is already serving
an eight year sentence
for helping Bulger
evade capture.
[man] The government wanted
to punish her
because it was the only way
they could really get
at Jim Bulger.
make him hurt more.
The judge allowed every
alleged victim of Jim Bulger
who had no relevance
whatsoever to Catherine Greig
to come into court
and call her
a dirty little bitch.
And they yelled at her.
and the...
No judge should allow
their courtroom
to be used like that.
It was disgusting.
[Catherine] I didn't have a
trial. I pled guilty to the charges.
but my sentence was still
the longest in US history
for what I was charged with.
I wasn't given that long
sentence for what I did.
I was given that long sentence
and the last thing
the judge said to me
when I left the courtroom was.
"Now. if you come back
and speak to us."
'cause I wouldn't
talk to them...
"If you come back
and speak to us"
"we'll be glad to revisit this."
And I thought.
"How outrageous is this?"
And I didn't understand then
that what they did to people
was give them a pass if they
told. not even the truth.
but they told
their version of the truth.
And that. unfortunately
is what has become
of our justice system
which I think is horrendous.
[gentle music]
[Jason Bowns]
I think Bill Bulger
wanted to be judged
for what he did
and not
for what his brother did.
And I think people.
for some reason.
they're just fascinated
by the crime stuff.
You know.
it really hit home to me
when I was calling UMass Boston.
I was asking them
to help me track down
an article in the library.
It was called
"The Bulger I Know."
And the girl on the end
of the line. she said.
"As if we know any other Bulger
"You know "Whitey" Bulger.
as if we know any other."
And the article
wasn't even about...
It was about Bill Bulger
and it was written
by Walter Boverini.
who had served
with him in the Senate.
And it just hit me
how much his legacy
and anything that he did
was fading away
and being overshadowed
by his brother.
And even. UMass Boston.
where Bulger had been President
for eight years. didn't even
know that it was about him.
[melancholic music]
[Jimmy] As I get older
I realize. like.
my dad's contemporaries
are checking out now.
And guys who remembered him
being a Senator
they're getting old.
They're my age. you know.
time moves on.
The neighborhood
I grew up in is gone.
It doesn't exist anymore.
There's nothing.
There's nothing left. there's
yuppies over there now.
You know. I think some of them
think they live in South Boston
and it's the place to be.
but the guys
who made it South Boston.
the people who lived there.
they're spread all through
the south shore. you know.
[brass band playing]
[indistinct chatter]
- [William Bulger] It's a big crowd here.
- [man] Yeah. it is.
[William Bulger]
♪ From the mountains ♪
♪ To the prairies ♪
♪ To the oceans
White with foam ♪
♪ God bless America ♪
♪ My home sweet home ♪
[band music fades]
[man] Sadly. he at least in part
is going to be remembered
because of his brother.
I hope at some point
we can at least
find a way to recognize him
in the contributions he made
to making this a better place.
[man] He grew up in modest
circumstances in Southie.
Southie was a very tightly
knit community.
so they were a force
under themselves.
And I think Bill Bulger's
political legacy
will last for another 100
years in Massachusetts.
People are gonna remember
him for a long time.
[drums playing]
[Bill] He raised nine children.
He came out of the housing
projects in South Boston.
got himself
to Boston College High School
and then to Boston College.
He went into the military
so the GI Bill could pay for
his College.
That should shine through more
than the shadow of a brother.
You know. whatever the
transgressions of his brother.
that should not overshadow
my dad.
[sentimental music]
[newsreader]
And we have breaking news now
about a notorious
Boston mobster.
[reporter] We're just learning
that the notorious gangster
James "Whitey" Bulger
has been killed in prison.
Officials had just moved him
to a prison in West Virginia.
At the height of his power.
"Whitey" Bulger ruled the streets
with an iron fist.
But those days are long over.
Now "Whitey" Bulger is dead
in a prison in West Virginia
and authorities are trying to
figure out how this happened.
I'm out in front
of Billy's house.
By the way. he came home
and we got a fleeting shot of him.
You know. they just kind of
pulled up and he ran in.
We did see one man come up.
leave a card in the mailbox
right there and walk away.
He didn't want to talk either
as reaction
continues to come in.
[reporters chatter]
[Catherine] I was in my room
and I could hear people
running down the hallway
and my friend...
[breaths deeply]
[voice breaking]
...stood in the doorway and...
"Miss Catherine...
Miss Catherine..."
"It's Jimmy..."
I thought he had a heart attack
because he had
mini heart attacks.
And she said. "He was murdered."
I screamed.
I literally screamed.
I couldn't believe it.
I jumped up
and I ran down the room
and I think I ran yelling
the whole way
"'Whitey' Bulger is dead.
He's been killed."
It was stunning.
It was really stunning
that he would...
That it would end that way.
[Bob Ward] We all knew "Whitey"
Bulger was going to meet his end.
But still. it's kind of a shock
when it actually happens.
"Whitey" has been
this larger than life
figure in South Boston
and in Boston.
I think all of New England.
for decades.
And now he's gone.
and it's just kind of hard
to let that sort of sink
in a little bit.
Part of me was angry at myself
because I had visited him
several times in jail
and it had been a while since
I had visited him
and I really regretted the fact
that I had not at least gone down
to visit him.
you know. one more time.
When I learned that he died.
I didn't think of it
as the end of a chapter.
I thought of it
as who signed the paperwork
to put him in that prison.
It was a set up.
The government executed him
in my opinion.
[Catherine] He was waiting to
be transferred to a medical facility.
and instead. somehow
they transferred him
to the most dangerous...
[voice breaking]
...prison and put him
in population immediately.
No. that's not
one person's mistake.
That is over-seeing.
[woman] We are very
aggressively chasing the story
of "Whitey" Bulger's murder
because I feel strongly that
this needs to be
thoroughly investigated.
There needs to be
accountability.
And that...
I'm not just talking about the
people that went into the cell
and murdered him.
I'm talking about the people
in the Bureau of Prisons
who put him in a position
where he could be murdered.
And that's really
the bigger question.
[Catherine] He wasn't the person
that was created by the media.
I don't know how they created
what they did.
It seems like they needed him
to be a monster.
I felt like
it was my responsibility
to try to diminish
this horrible image.
I thought this is my chance
to see how my life was
and it really. truly...
If I had to do all over again.
I would go with him.
[morose music]
[William Bulger] The subject
that interests so many.
the life and the activities
of my brother James
is painful and difficult for me.
But it is a subject I've lived
with for a long time.
In truth. my effort with Jim
spanned the decades.
My attempts to change
my brother's life
were unsuccessful.
I wish that I could have
achieved success.
But I must tell you
that reforming Jim Bulger
was not my sole
24 hour a day focus.
I never wrote my brother off
or walled him off.
but public service
and my own immediate family
placed very large claims on me.
And while I worried
about my brother.
I now recognize
that I didn't fully grasp
the dimensions of his life.
[somber music]
[somber music continues]
[William praying]
Our Father. Who art in heaven
hallowed be Thy name.
Thy kingdom come
Thy will be done
on earth as it is in Heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses
as we forgive those
who trespass against us.
And lead us not into temptation
but deliver us from evil. Amen.
[somber music]